Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we are going to implement the stopping and speeding functionalities.
All right, so first off, let's come here and let's create the tarping functionality, right.
So for that, we are going to grab our star between DOT and we are going to add an event listener to
it.
The event is going to be click.
And when it is clicked, we are going to run a function called stop text.
Now, let's come down here and let's create the stop text function.
All right.
So we are going to say function, stop.
Text, right, and what do we want this function to do?
We want this function.
To stop, if the text is being text is being read or if the or if the text is passed, in any case,
we want to we want to stop that function.
Right.
So what we are going to do is we are going to say speech synthetics, dot cancer.
This is going to stop the speech.
Right?
This is going to stop it.
And we are also going to say speech.
Speech synthetics that resume.
All right, so you know what, I'm just going to swap their places because whenever the speech is being
spoken, we want to either resume it or we want to cancel it.
All right.
What I mean is whenever we pause or text, we we should resume it if we do not resume and the stop button
is not going to work.
So the resume method is going to be called inside the stop function and inside the agreed text function.
So let's go ahead and let's check out and let's grab our text from right here, spaced it here.
Let's click on the read quick brown fox pause, stop.
See the quick brown fox.
And when we stop it and when we read it again, it is going to start from the beginning.
Right.
So this is the stopping functionality, the final functionality that I want to implement.
And this video is going to be the speed.
The speed, input, functionality, input, functionality, right, and for this, we are going to grab
our speed button and we are going to add an event listener to it now because the speed button is actually
an input right and input type of number.
It is an input.
We are going to add an input event to it and we will listen for it.
And when the input event is fired, we are going to run a function.
What is the function going to do?
The function is going to stop the text, right?
The function is going to stop the text and the function is going to call our read text method, read
text function.
It is going to call that function as a callback function and the parameter is something very, very
cool.
So for this to work, the parameter of what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to
initialize I'm not going to give it a value.
I'm just going to initialize a variable called current char or current character.
All right.
And now what I'm going to do is where is our.
Hmm.
Here are this.
No, that is not this hero.
This so inside the read, what do we want to do is we want to grab our utterance and the text that the
computer has just received to read.
And we want to grab a substring of that.
Right.
And why do we want to do that?
I'm going to tell you why the text that substring substring and I'm going to pass in the current char.
Right.
So let's come into our final finished application.
Let's say functionality or not functionality.
Let's copy a portion of our text.
I copied its pasted right here.
OK, so let's add an S here, let's click on the read, right, pay pay very, very close attention.
And the thing that you're looking for is whenever I click read and if I try to change the speed, it
is going to start from a from for example, if it is inside, if it is in this ward, it is going to
start from the start of this word.
It is not when I change the speed, it is not going to start from the beginning of the text.
It is just going to start from the beginning of the word that it was just speaking.
Right.
So that's how it is going to work.
Stop.
All right, let's paste it.
Let's read in the distant future.
I hope that is clear.
I just I just kept clicking on the Interstellar and I just kept increasing the speed.
And it could not go any further from this word because it has to say it completely.
Then it can go forward.
Let's read
acceptance letter.
See, so each time that we go ahead and we increase the speed or decrease the speed, the speech is
going to stop at that specific word and it is going to grab a substring of that word, which is the
first one.
And how does this actually help us?
This is going to help us implementing the functionality of increasing the speed whenever the computer
is actually still speaking.
So you can increase it even without this speed, without this event listener, you can increase the
speed after the text is done or before the text is ever spoken.
You can do that.
But if you want to implement the functionality to be able to increase the speed at the exact time when
the speech is being spoken, we need to have another event listener.
And that event is going to be a boundary event which is specific to our utterance.
So I'm going to come down here and I'm going to say utterance that ad event listener, add event listener.
And now this is a very specific event for our utterance and we are going to look for the boundary whenever
we find the boundary.
We are going to grab our event object and we want we are going to run a function.
So we are going to say current char should be equal.
Now, we have initialized our current character, but we have not specified a specific value.
This is a function call, right.
The function is going to be called inside the speech text sorry, the speed button.
What is the current charas value?
The current Charas value is going to come from IDOT.
Char or character index, this method is available to us by this utterance, so if I go ahead and if
I can log it, you will understand what I mean.
I mean, this point you understand so well, I'm going to go to top here and I'm going to grab our very
overused sentence.
Come on, buddy.
And I'm going to stay right here.
So now let's go ahead and let's click read.
I didn't read it, come on, buddy.
Read it.
Stop it.
And then read it quick, Brown Fox jumps over the lazy.
Now you can see that we have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine.
We have nine indices here and we have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight and nine
words.
So each of these indices, it represents the starting letter of a word.
OK, so this team has an index of zero.
We get zero here then index one two.
Oops, this is index of three.
And this Q which is the starting letter of the second word is going to have an index of four.
So this Brown has an index of ten, the F has an index of sixteen.
The jump has an index of twenty.
We can count it.
So this is zero.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
18, 19.
There we go to one.
So this has an index of twenty.
And the current chart is what I just consultor the log.
Sorry, log to the console.
So the current Charas value is going to come from the event object, the character index.
It's like the path that we had for our previous project, which was the to do OK like path like target
that we use all the time.
Whenever we say event object on the event out of boundary, which is on the utterance, we can use the
char index if you want to know all the I'm just going to come in this out and I'm going to paste it
here.
If you want to know all the event properties and objects that you will get Juska, you just have to
do this.
This is everything you will get.
So if I just click on this, these are everything you will get whenever you specify or you add a boundary
event.
And where is our character index?
This is our character index because this was the first word.
And if I come down here to here.
So this is the word number eight.
Our character index should be thirty five.
OK, character index is thirty five.
This is the name is word.
What else do we have here.
Let's take a look at it.
OK, so we have text as the brown fox boundary.
The one type is boundary.
So we have all this information but we only want the the character index property.
Right.
So I think I think we are done here.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to delete these council logs and let's take a look at it.
So we have all of our functionalities reading, pausing, stopping and speed and put functionality.
All right.
We have created our utterance and utterance to even listeners for the utterance specific, for the utterance.
We have a text function, our postfix function, stop text function.
All right.
So let's go ahead and let's check out our application.
I'm just going to close this and I'm going to say, hey, they're wide open.
What is up is click.
Hey, there.
What is.
OK, so this was a bit of a fast we can decrease it.
OK, we can say, read it, stop, read it there one is we can pause it, of course.
So let's let's grab our text from here.
OK, let's put it right here, Sayeret.
Stop it read it is also necessary for space navigation.
OK, stop, stop.
It is also necessary.
OK, the speed is also working with me, if I put it to zero point five that only the drug provides.
OK.
As well.
And so this is the final one, this is eight a this is one of the politics, religion.
All right.
So we should we should we should be good.
So this is going to be at the for this chapter and for this project.
I hope you have enjoyed it.
There were quite a lot of new things.
What am I doing here?
We had speech, synthetics, utterance.
We worked with some utterance, some new event listeners.
As you can see, there are a lot of listeners.
And one thing that I that I think you have mastered by now is using if statements that said for this
lecture and for this chapter and of course, for this project.
See you guys in the next one.